Integrating Razorpay with a project hosted on Replit involves setting up both a backend to handle API interactions and a frontend to initiate the payment flow.
1. Backend Setup on Replit:
Choose a Backend Language:
Select a language supported by Replit for your backend (e.g., Node.js, Python with Flask/Django, etc.).
Install Razorpay SDK:
Install the relevant Razorpay SDK for your chosen language within your Replit environment. For example, in Node.js, use npm install razorpay.
API Key Management:
Store your Razorpay API Key ID and Key Secret securely as environment variables in Replit's "Secrets" tab. This prevents exposure of sensitive information in your code.
Order Creation:
Implement an endpoint in your backend to create Razorpay orders using the Orders API. This endpoint will receive payment details from your frontend and return an order_id.
Webhook Handling (Optional but Recommended):
Set up a webhook endpoint on your Replit backend to receive real-time payment status updates from Razorpay. This helps in verifying payment success and handling refunds or failures.
2. Frontend Setup on Replit:
Razorpay Checkout Integration: Include the Razorpay Checkout script in your frontend HTML file.
Code

    <script src="https://checkout.razorpay.com/v1/checkout.js"></script>
Payment Initiation:
Implement JavaScript code to initiate the Razorpay Checkout process. This involves creating an options object with details like key (your Razorpay Key ID), amount, currency, name, description, and the order_id received from your backend.
Handler Function:
Define a handler function to process the response after a successful or failed payment. This function typically receives the razorpay_payment_id and other relevant information, which should then be sent back to your backend for verification.
3. Payment Verification:
Signature Verification:
On your Replit backend, after a successful payment, verify the razorpay_signature returned by the Checkout form to ensure the authenticity of the payment. This is a crucial security step.
Payment Status Check:
Confirm the payment status on the Razorpay Dashboard to ensure the payment is captured.
By following these steps, you can successfully integrate Razorpay into your Replit-hosted application, enabling secure and efficient online payment processing.